- user: user access/privilege level 3
- kernel: user access/privilege level 0

- kernel is always encoded in yellow.

- we can't have the same say "open" file function on the kernel because we want to enforce the isolation between user and kernel.

- we invoke int 0x80 that marks the open function.
    - this interrupts changes it from ring 3 to ring 0.

- what system calls do we need?
    - file IO: open, read, write, close(), chdir(), mkdir().
    - alloc/dealloc, sbrk()
    - interprocess communication, pipe(), dup().

- fork()/exec()


- network: sockets()

- but what is shell?
    - shell is just another program/process.
    - kernel -> vga driver -> visual frame buffer -> graphical card

- `wc -l ls.c`
    - shell starts the process(exec()) wc and waits for it's response. 
    - after wc is done shell reads it's response and outputs it.
---
console read
- read 0 interrupt -> invoke sys read
- make sure buff have memory access that is a user memory not in kernel.

- file descriptors can be files, can be devices(console) or it can be a pipe.

---
cat reads from standard input: 0 and outputs to standard output: 1.

---
creating new process
- fork() creates a copy of same parent process.
- exec(): replace memory with file pointer of some command file pointer.

we do this way for IO redirection.
supports the os polymorphism.

pipe is a circular buffer.

file pointer can be different for same memory location inside the kernel.


- fork and exec implements this IO redirection.

- when opening we get  the smallest open file descriptor.